doc(release) Release notes web 24.10.13 dsm 24.10.3 (#4727)
centreon/centreon-documentation: i18n/fr/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/version-24.10/releases/centreon-os.mdx

## Centreon Web

### 24.10.13

Release date: `October 7, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [API] Enhanced Agent configuration endpoints documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API] Enhanced agent configuration endpoints documentation.
```

> - [Configuration] ACC - vCenter/ESC names are now unique.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] ACC: vCenter/ESC names are now unique.
```

> - [configuration] Cleaned up labels in Agent configuration screens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [configuration] Cleaned up labels in agent configuration screens.
```

> - [Custom Views] "Global Health" and "Top 10" widgets - Improved display and fixed issue with MySQL8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Custom Views] "Global Health" and "Top 10" widgets: improved display and fixed issue with MySQL8.
```

</details>

<details open>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - A default Token has been generated and applied to existing agent configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A default token has been generated and applied to existing agent configurations.
```

- Added missing French translations for help messages.

> - [Administration] Fixed an error message when a CMA token was copied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Administration] Fixed an error occurring when a CMA token was copied.
```

> - [API v1] Fixed creation of services by CLAPI with a non-administrator user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API v1] Fixed an issue with the creation of services by CLAPI with a non-administrator user.
```

> - [API v1] Forbid creation of host and host groups with an empty name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API v1] Creating hosts and host groups with an empty name is now forbidden.
```

- [Authentication] Fixed an issue that prevented users logged in via OIDC from logging out of the interface.

> - [Authentication] LDAP user with no mail can now authenticate on Centreon with LDAP auto import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] LDAP users with no email can now authenticate to Centreon using LDAP auto import.
```

> - [CLAPI] Fixed host creation form to accept spaces in name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CLAPI] Spaces in host names are now replaced by an underscore, making CLAPI's behavior consistent with that of the interface.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed a circular dependencies issue for service template inheritance (UI + API).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed a circular dependency issue affecting service template inheritance (interface + API).
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on Additional Configuration where configuration were lost if name are just numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue with Additional Configurations where configuration were lost if the name of the vCenter contained only numbers.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where non explicit error message were displayed when saving host configuration if geo-coordinates are too long.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where non explicit error messages were displayed when saving host configuration when geographic coordinates were too long.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed host alias not properly handling quotes in input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration]  Fixed an issue where host aliases were not handling quotes in inputs properly.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue on "configuration changed" flag which was not updated when changing extended info using CLAPI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue where the "configuration changed" flag was not updated when changing extended info using CLAPI.
```

> - [Configuration] Increased contact_pager property to enable longer tokens (e.g. Microsoft Teams).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Increased contact_pager property to allow for longer tokens (e.g. Microsoft Teams tokens)
```

- [Configuration] The creation of metaservices no longer fails for users with several ACL rules on resources.

> - [Custom Views] Host Monitoring - Fixed the export functionality for all resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Custom Views] Host Monitoring: fixed the export functionality for all resources.
```

> - [Dashboards] Metrics Graph widget - Fixed display issue when changing graph display type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Metrics Graph widget: fixed a display issue occurring when changing the graph display type.
```

> - [Dashboards] Fixed contact search when sharing a dashboard or a playlist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Fixed some issues with contact search when sharing a dashboard or a playlist.
```

> - [Dashboards] Fixed saving issue when leaving dashboards to a legacy page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Fixed a saving issue occurring when leaving dashboards for a legacy page.
```

- [Dashboards] Reduced the minimum size for MAP and Resource table widgets.

> - [Dashboards] Status Grid - Fixed link to Resource Status page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Status Grid: fixed link to Resource Status page.
```

> - [Event Logs] Pagination was not working properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Event Logs] Fixed pagination that was not working properly.
```

> - Fixed an issue where service deploy endpoint was adding the command line to the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where the service deployment endpoint was adding the command line to the service.
```

> - Fixed an issue where exported Tokens was ignored by engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where exported tokens were ignored by Engine.
```

> - [LDAP] Fixed an issue on Users & Groups filters validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [LDAP] User & Group filters now work correctly when editing an LDAP configuration.
```

> - [Packaging] Removed obsolete dependencies for database related centreon packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Packaging] Removed obsolete dependencies for database-related Centreon packages.
```

> - [Resource Status] Fixed an issue on notification tab where same user was displayed multiple times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource Status] Fixed an issue on the notification tab where the same user was displayed multiple times.
```

> - [Resource Status] Fixed notification tab to display the contact set on service template rather than on the host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource Status] Fixed the notification tab to display the contact defined on the service template rather than on the host.
```

> - [Resource Status] Removed deleted resources from search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource Status] Deleted resources no longer appear in search results.
```

- [Resource Status] The pipe “|” character is now handled correctly in the command section of a resource.

> - [Resource Status] View by host - Fixed issue preventing resources from being displayed when filtering on a resource that has no metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resource Status] View by host: fixed an issue preventing resources from being displayed when filtering on a resource that had no metrics.
```

- [Update] Fixed an issue on modules routes which were no longer up to date.

</details>

<details open>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Administration] Fixed XSS in Administration > ACL > Action Access.

> - [Configuration] Fixed XSS in Configuration > SNMP Traps form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [Security] The current password is now required when modifying a user password.

> - [Vulnerability] Custom Views - Fixed XSS in the HTTP Loader widget "Website" field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- [Vulnerability] Fixed insecure direct object reference allowing private widget retrieval.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability on Hosts templates.
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability on Recurrent downtimes.
- [Vulnerability]	Fixed XSS vulnerability on Connectors.
- [Vulnerability]	Fixed XSS vulnerability on Resources Access parameters.

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability on SNMP traps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed multiple XSS vulnerabilities.
```

> - [Vulnerability] Securized Poller configuration commands to avoid RCE vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Securized poller configuration commands to avoid RCE vulnerability.
```

## Centreon DSM

### 24.10.3

Release date: `October 7, 2025`

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [Packaging] sql files are now correctly packaged on centreon-dsm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Packaging] SQL files are now correctly packaged for centreon-dsm.
```

> - [Packaging] Updated permissions of dsm purge log file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Packaging] Updated permissions for DSM purge and cron files.
```
